physical counterparts. We may roughly classify communication systems into three main categories: discrete,
continuous and mixed. By a discrete system we will mean one in which both the message and the signal
are a sequence of discrete symbols. A typical case is telegraphy where the message is a sequence of letters
and the signal a sequence of dots, dashes and spaces. A continuous system is one in which the message and
signal are both treated as continuous functions, e.g., radio or television. A mixed system is one in which
both discrete and continuous variables appear, e.g., PCM transmission of speech.

We first consider the discrete case. This case has applications not only in communication theory, but
also in the theory of computing machines, the design of telephone exchanges and other fields. In addition
the discrete case forms a foundation for the continuous and mixed cases which will be treated in the second
half of the paper.

PART I: DISCRETE NOISELESS SYSTEMS

1. THE DISCRETE NOISELESS CHANNEL

Teletype and telegraphy are two simple examples of a discrete channel for transmitting information. Gen-
erally, a discrete channel will mean a system whereby a sequence of choices from a finite set of elementary
symbols S;,...,5, can be transmitted from one point to another. Each of the symbols S; is assumed to have
a certain duration in time t; seconds (not necessarily the same for different S;, for example the dots and
dashes in telegraphy). It is not required that all possible sequences of the S$; be capable of transmission on
the system; certain sequences only may be allowed. These will be possible signals for the channel. Thus
in telegraphy suppose the symbols are: (1) A dot, consisting of line closure for a unit of time and then line
open for a unit of time; (2) A dash, consisting of three time units of closure and one unit open; (3) A letter
space consisting of, say, three units of line open; (4) A word space of six units of line open. We might place
the restriction on allowable sequences that no spaces follow each other (for if two letter spaces are adjacent,
it is identical with a word space). The question we now consider is how one can measure the capacity of
such a channel to transmit information.

In the teletype case where all symbols are of the same duration, and any sequence of the 32 symbols
is allowed the answer is easy. Each symbol represents five bits of information. If the system transmits n
symbols per second it is natural to say that the channel has a capacity of 5n bits per second. This does not
mean that the teletype channel will always be transmitting information at this rate — this is the maximum
possible rate and whether or not the actual rate reaches this maximum depends on the source of information
which feeds the channel, as will appear later.

In the more general case with different lengths of symbols and constraints on the allowed sequences, we
make the following definition:

Definition: The capacity C of a discrete channel is given by
C= Lim 2X
TR 0
where N(T) is the number of allowed signals of duration T.

It is easily seen that in the teletype case this reduces to the previous result. It can be shown that the limit
in question will exist as a finite number in most cases of interest. Suppose all sequences of the symbols
S1,---,S, are allowed and these symbols have durations f1,...,f,. What is the channel capacity? If N(r)
represents the number of sequences of duration t we have

N(t)=N(t—th) +N(t—t2) +--+ N(t—-th).

The total number is equal to the sum of the numbers of sequences ending in S;,52,...,S, and these are
N(t —t),N(t —t2),...,N(t —t), respectively. According to a well-known result in finite differences, N(t)
is then asymptotic for large t to X4 where Xo is the largest real solution of the characteristic equation:

XN XP. +X MAI
