of proper encoding of the information. In telegraphy, for example, the messages to be transmitted consist of
sequences of letters. These sequences, however, are not completely random. In general, they form sentences
and have the statistical structure of, say, English. The letter E occurs more frequently than Q, the sequence
TH more frequently than XP, etc. The existence of this structure allows one to make a saving in time (or
channel capacity) by properly encoding the message sequences into signal sequences. This is already done
to a limited extent in telegraphy by using the shortest channel symbol, a dot, for the most common English
letter E; while the infrequent letters, Q, X, Z are represented by longer sequences of dots and dashes. This
idea is carried still further in certain commercial codes where common words and phrases are represented
by four- or five-letter code groups with a considerable saving in average time. The standardized greeting
and anniversary telegrams now in use extend this to the point of encoding a sentence or two into a relatively
short sequence of numbers.

We can think of a discrete source as generating the message, symbol by symbol. It will choose succes-
sive symbols according to certain probabilities depending, in general, on preceding choices as well as the
particular symbols in question. A physical system, or a mathematical model of a system which produces
such a sequence of symbols governed by a set of probabilities, is known as a stochastic process.> We may
consider a discrete source, therefore, to be represented by a stochastic process. Conversely, any stochastic
process which produces a discrete sequence of symbols chosen from a finite set may be considered a discrete
source. This will include such cases as:

1. Natural written languages such as English, German, Chinese.

2. Continuous information sources that have been rendered discrete by some quantizing process. For
example, the quantized speech from a PCM transmitter, or a quantized television signal.

3. Mathematical cases where we merely define abstractly a stochastic process which generates a se-
quence of symbols. The following are examples of this last type of source.

(A) Suppose we have five letters A, B, C, D, E which are chosen each with probability .2, successive
choices being independent. This would lead to a sequence of which the following is a typical
example.

BDCBCECCCADCBDDAAECEEA
ABBDAEECACEEBAEECBCEAD.

This was constructed with the use of a table of random numbers.*

(B) Using the same five letters let the probabilities be .4, .1, .2, .2, .1, respectively, with successive
choices independent. A typical message from this source is then:
AAACDCBDCEAADADACEDA
EADCABEDADDCECAAAAAD.

(C) A more complicated structure is obtained if successive symbols are not chosen independently
but their probabilities depend on preceding letters. In the simplest case of this type a choice
depends only on the preceding letter and not on ones before that. The statistical structure can
then be described by a set of transition probabilities p;(j), the probability that letter i is followed
by letter j. The indices i and j range over all the possible symbols. A second equivalent way of
specifying the structure is to give the “digram’” probabilities p(i, j), i.e., the relative frequency of
the digram i j. The letter frequencies p(i), (the probability of letter 7), the transition probabilities

3See, for example, S. Chandrasekhar, “Stochastic Problems in Physics and Astronomy,” Reviews of Modern Physics, v. 15, No. 1,
January 1943, p. 1.
4Kendall and Smith, Tables of Random Sampling Numbers, Cambridge, 1939.
