To construct (3) for example, one opens a book at random and selects a letter at random on the page. This
letter is recorded. The book is then opened to another page and one reads until this letter is encountered.
The succeeding letter is then recorded. Turning to another page this second letter is searched for and the
succeeding letter recorded, etc. A similar process was used for (4), (5) and (6). It would be interesting if
further approximations could be constructed, but the labor involved becomes enormous at the next stage.

4. GRAPHICAL REPRESENTATION OF A MARKOFF PROCESS

Stochastic processes of the type described above are known mathematically as discrete Markoff processes
and have been extensively studied in the literature. The general case can be described as follows: There
exist a finite number of possible “states” of a system; S,,52,...,S,. In addition there is a set of transition
probabilities; p;(j) the probability that if the system is in state S; it will next go to state $;. To make this
Markoff process into an information source we need only assume that a letter is produced for each transition
from one state to another. The states will correspond to the “residue of influence” from preceding letters.
The situation can be represented graphically as shown in Figs. 3, 4 and 5. The “states” are the junction

Fig. 3—A graph corresponding to the source in example B.

points in the graph and the probabilities and letters produced for a transition are given beside the correspond-
ing line. Figure 3 is for the example B in Section 2, while Fig. 4 corresponds to the example C. In Fig. 3

Fig. 4—A graph corresponding to the source in example C.

there is only one state since successive letters are independent. In Fig. 4 there are as many states as letters.
If a trigram example were constructed there would be at most n? states corresponding to the possible pairs
of letters preceding the one being chosen. Figure 5 is a graph for the case of word structure in example D.
Here S corresponds to the “space” symbol.

5. ERGODIC AND MIXED SOURCES

As we have indicated above a discrete source for our purposes can be considered to be represented by a
Markoff process. Among the possible discrete Markoff processes there is a group with special properties
of significance in communication theory. This special class consists of the “ergodic” processes and we
shall call the corresponding sources ergodic sources. Although a rigorous definition of an ergodic process is
somewhat involved, the general idea is simple. In an ergodic process every sequence produced by the process

6For a detailed treatment see M. Fréchet, Méthode des fonctions arbitraires. Théorie des événements en chaine dans le cas d’un
nombre fini d’états possibles. Paris, Gauthier- Villars, 1938.
