is the same in statistical properties. Thus the letter frequencies, digram frequencies, etc., obtained from
particular sequences, will, as the lengths of the sequences increase, approach definite limits independent
of the particular sequence. Actually this is not true of every sequence but the set for which it is false has
probability zero. Roughly the ergodic property means statistical homogeneity.

All the examples of artificial languages given above are ergodic. This property is related to the structure
of the corresponding graph. If the graph has the following two properties’ the corresponding process will
be ergodic:

1. The graph does not consist of two isolated parts A and B such that it is impossible to go from junction
points in part A to junction points in part B along lines of the graph in the direction of arrows and also
impossible to go from junctions in part B to junctions in part A.

2. Aclosed series of lines in the graph with all arrows on the lines pointing in the same orientation will
be called a “circuit.” The “length” of a circuit is the number of lines in it. Thus in Fig. 5 series BEBES
is acircuit of length 5. The second property required is that the greatest common divisor of the lengths
of all circuits in the graph be one.

Fig. 5—A graph corresponding to the source in example D.

If the first condition is satisfied but the second one violated by having the greatest common divisor equal
to d > 1, the sequences have a certain type of periodic structure. The various sequences fall into d different
classes which are statistically the same apart from a shift of the origin (i.e., which letter in the sequence is
called letter 1). By a shift of from 0 up to d— 1 any sequence can be made statistically equivalent to any
other. A simple example with d = 2 is the following: There are three possible letters a,b,c. Letter a is
followed with either b or c with probabilities ; and 3 respectively. Either b or c is always followed by letter
a. Thus a typical sequence is

abacacacabacababacac.

This type of situation is not of much importance for our work.

If the first condition is violated the graph may be separated into a set of subgraphs each of which satisfies
the first condition. We will assume that the second condition is also satisfied for each subgraph. We have in
this case what may be called a “mixed” source made up of a number of pure components. The components
correspond to the various subgraphs. If L;, Lo, L3,... are the component sources we may write

L= pil) + pole + p3l3+:::

7These are restatements in terms of the graph of conditions given in Fréchet.
