average the frequency of errors over this group and show that this average can be made less than e. If the
average of a set of numbers is less than € there must exist at least one in the set which is less than €. This
will establish the desired result.

The capacity C of a noisy channel has been defined as

C = Max (H(x) _ Hy(x))

where x is the input and y the output. The maximization is over all sources which might be used as input to
the channel.

Let So be a source which achieves the maximum capacity C. If this maximum is not actually achieved
by any source let Sp be a source which approximates to giving the maximum rate. Suppose So is used as
input to the channel. We consider the possible transmitted and received sequences of a long duration T. The
following will be true:

1. The transmitted sequences fall into two classes, a high probability group with about 27”) members
and the remaining sequences of small total probability.

2. Similarly the received sequences have a high probability set of about 27”) members and a low
probability set of remaining sequences.

3. Each high probability output could be produced by about 27") inputs. The probability of all other
cases has a small total probability.

All the e’s and 6’s implied by the words “small” and “about” in these statements approach zero as we
allow T to increase and So to approach the maximizing source.

The situation is summarized in Fig. 10 where the input sequences are points on the left and output
sequences points on the right. The fan of cross lines represents the range of possible causes for a typical
output.

E
e
M e
e e
e e

QH(x)T
HIGH PROBABILITY QH(y)T
MESSAGES HIGH PROBABILITY
RECEIVED SIGNALS
QHy(x)T
REASONABLE CAUSES
e FOR EACH E e
e e

QH.(y)T
@ REASONABLE EFFECTS @
FOR EACH M
e

Fig. 10—Schematic representation of the relations between inputs and outputs in a channel.
Now suppose we have another source producing information at rate R with R < C. In the period T this

source will have 27* high probability messages. We wish to associate these with a selection of the possible
channel inputs in such a way as to get a small frequency of errors. We will set up this association in all

23
